docs - mysql appdb note (#45956)
metabase/metabase: docs/installation-and-operation/configuring-application-database.md

For production, we recommend using PostgreSQL as your application database.

- [PostgreSQL](#postgresql) (recommended for production)
- [MySQL](#mysql-or-mariadb) (also works for production)
- [H2](#h2-default) (default for local demos - AVOID in production)

Metabase will read the connection configuration information when the application starts up. You can't change the application database while the application is running.

## PostgreSQL

We recommend that you use [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) for your Metabase application database.

You can use [environment variables](../configuring-metabase/environment-variables.md) to set a Postgres database as Metabase's application database. For example, the following commands tell Metabase to use a Postgres database as its application database:

```sh
export MB_DB_TYPE=postgres
export MB_DB_DBNAME=metabase
export MB_DB_PORT=5432
export MB_DB_USER=<username>
export MB_DB_PASS=<password>
export MB_DB_HOST=localhost
java -jar metabase.jar
```

Metabase will not create a Postgres database for you. Example command to create the database:

```sh

> createdb --encoding=UTF8 -e metabase

Reviewer: Always seemed kind of weird to me that we give a psql cli command for postgres but SQL for mysql...

```sh
export MB_DB_CONNECTION_URI="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/metabase?user=<username>&password=<password>"
java -jar metabase.jar
```

As with Postgres, `MB_DB_CONNECTION_URI` can also be used in combination with `MB_DB_USER` and/or `MB_DB_PASS` if you
want to pass one or both separately from the rest of the JDBC connection string:

```sh
export MB_DB_CONNECTION_URI="jdbc:mysql://localhost:5432/metabase"
export MB_DB_USER=<username>
export MB_DB_PASS=<password>
java -jar metabase.jar
```

## H2(default)

> **For production installations of Metabase we recommend that people [replace the default H2 database with PostgreSQL](./migrating-from-h2.md)**. Postgres offers a greater degree of performance and reliability.

By default, Metabase ships with an [H2 database](https://www.h2database.com/) to make it easy to demo Metabase on your local machine. **Avoid using this default database in production**.

If when launching Metabase you don't provide environment variables that specify connection details for a production database, Metabase will attempt to create a new H2 database in the same directory as the Metabase JAR.

> You can see these database files from the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the database files for the H2 database from the terminal:
```
The previous paragraph doesn't mention any files so "these files" is an unclear reference, especially considering we never say that H2 is a file database
